// Townsfolk
Steward: You start knowing 1 good player.
Investigator: You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Minion.
Librarian: You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Outsider. (Or that zero are in play)
Shugenja: You start knowing if your closest evil player is clockwise or anti-clockwise. If equidistant, this info is arbitrary.
Empath: Each night, you learn how many of your 2 alive neighbors are evil.
Fortune Teller: Each night, choose 2 players: you learn if either is a Demon. There is 1 good player that registers falsely to you.
Undertaker: Each night (except the first night), you learn a character that died by execution today.
Monk: Each night (except the first night), choose a player (not yourself): they are safe from the Demon tonight.
Fisherman: Once per game, during the day, visit the Storyteller for some advice to help your team win.
Slayer: Once per game, during the day, publicly choose a player: if they are the Demon, they die.
Philosopher: Once per game, at night, choose a good character: gain that ability. If this character is in play, they are drunk.
Soldier: You are safe from the Demon.
Ravenkeeper: If you die at night, you are woken to choose a player: you learn their character.
Washerwoman: You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Townsfolk.
Virgin: The 1st time you are nominated, if the nominator is a Townsfolk, they are executed immediately.
Chef: You start knowing how many pairs of evil players there are. (A pair is two players seated to next to each other, but one player may be part of two pairs.)
Mayor: If only 3 players live and no execution occurs, your team wins. If you die at night, another player might die instead.
Juggler: On your 1st day, publicly guess up to 5 players' characters. That night, you learn how many you got correct.
Pacifist: Executed good players might not die.

// Outsiders
Tinker: You might die at any time.
Sweetheart: When you die, 1 player is drunk from now on.
Recluse: You might register as evil and as a Minion or Demon, even if dead.
Drunk: You do not know you are the Drunk. You think you are a Townsfolk, but your ability malfunctions.
Saint: If you die by execution, your team loses.
Butler: Each night, choose a player (not yourself): tomorrow, you may only vote for their nomination or if they have voted for that nomination.
Snitch: Minions start knowing 3 not-in-play characters.

// Minions
Godfather: You start knowing which Outsiders are in-play. If 1 died today, choose a player tonight: they die. [-1 or +1 Outsider]
Poisoner: Each night, choose a player: their ability malfunctions tonight and tomorrow day.
Assassin: Once per game, at night (except the first night), choose a player: they die, even if for some reason they could not.
Scarlet Woman: If there are 5 or more players alive and the Demon dies, you become the Demon.
Baron: There are extra Outsiders in play. [+2 Outsiders]
Spy: Each night, you see the Grimoire. You might register as good and as a Townsfolk or Outsider, even if dead.
Witch: Each night, choose a player: if they nominate tomorrow, they die. If just 3 players live, you lose this ability.
Organ Grinder: All voting is done in secret and the vote tally is not public. Votes for you only count if you vote.

// Demons
Imp: Each night (except the first night), choose a player: they die. If you choose yourself, you die and a Minion becomes the Imp.
Ojo: Each night (except the first night), choose a character: they die. If they are not in play, the Storyteller chooses who dies.
No Dashii: Each night (except the first night), choose a player: they die. Your 2 Townsfolk neighbors are poisoned.